source/contributing.rst, before:

============
Contributing
============

If you wish to make comments regarding these specifications, please report using the
`ISA Specifications issue tracker <https://github.com/ISA-tools/isa-specifications/issues>`_ or send them to
isatools@googlegroups.com. All comments are welcome.

License
-------
.. attention::
    The ISA Model and Serialization Specifications are licensed under `CC BY-SA 4.0 <https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/>`_.

    Please feel free to **share** and **adapt** the ISA Model and Serialization Specifications but you **must give appropriate
    attribution**, and you **must apply the same license in any redistribution** of the specifications, even if it incorporates
    your own contributions.

Contributors
------------
The ISA Model and Serialization Specifications are maintained by Susanna-Assunta Sansone [1]_, Philippe Rocca-Serra [1]_, Alejandra
Gonzalez-Beltran [1]_ and David Johnson [1]_ on behalf of the `ISA Community <http://www.isacommons.org>`_.

The original ISA-Tab specification, on which the ISA Model and Serialization Specifications 1.0 is based on, was
initially drafted by Philippe Rocca-Serra, Susanna-Assunta Sansone and Marco Brandizi [2]_ and subsequently incorporates
input from David Hancock [3]_, Stephen Harris [4]_, Allyson Lister [1]_, Michael Miller [5]_, Kieran O'Neill [6]_, Chris Taylor [7]_, Weida Tong [3]_,
and contributors from the wider ISA Community.

.. [1] Oxford e-Research Centre, University of Oxford, UK.
.. [2] EMBL-EBI The European Bioinformatics Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, UK.
.. [3] NERC Bioinformatics Center (NEBC), Centre for Ecology and Hydrology, University of Manchester, School of Computer Science, Manchester, UK.
.. [4] FDA's National Center for Toxicological Research (NCTR), Center for Toxicoinformatics, Jefferson, AR, USA.
.. [5] Rosetta Biosoftware, Seattle, WA, USA.
.. [6] Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre, BC Cancer Agency, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
.. [7] Earlham Institute, Norwich Research Park, Norwich, UK.

Commit message:

Update contributors to include ISA hack workshop participants

source/contributing.rst, after:

============
Contributing
============

If you wish to make comments regarding these specifications, please report using the
`ISA Specifications issue tracker <https://github.com/ISA-tools/isa-specifications/issues>`_ or send them to
isatools@googlegroups.com. All comments are welcome.

License
-------
.. attention::
    The ISA Model and Serialization Specifications are licensed under `CC BY-SA 4.0 <https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/>`_.

    Please feel free to **share** and **adapt** the ISA Model and Serialization Specifications but you **must give appropriate
    attribution**, and you **must apply the same license in any redistribution** of the specifications, even if it incorporates
    your own contributions.

Contributors
------------
The ISA Model and Serialization Specifications are maintained by Susanna-Assunta Sansone [1]_, Philippe Rocca-Serra [1]_, Alejandra
Gonzalez-Beltran [1]_ and David Johnson [1]_ on behalf of the `ISA Community <http://www.isacommons.org>`_.

The ISA-Tab RC1 specification authored in 2008, on which the ISA Model and Serialization Specifications 1.0 is based on, was
initially drafted by Philippe Rocca-Serra, Susanna-Assunta Sansone and Marco Brandizi [2]_ and subsequently incorporates
input from David Hancock [3]_, Stephen Harris [4]_, Allyson Lister [1]_, Michael Miller [5]_, Kieran O'Neill [6]_, Chris Taylor [7]_, Weida Tong [3]_,
and contributors from the wider ISA Community.

Further feedback on ISA was also gratefully received from the ISA Community during the
`ISA as a FAIR research object workshop <http://elixir-uk.org/node-events/201cisa-as-a-fair-research-object201d-hack-the-spec-event-1>`_,
specifically from Scott Edmunds [8]_, Peter Li [8]_, Rob Davidson [9]_, Chris Hunter [8]_, Nina Jeliazkova [10]_,
Reza Salek [2]_, Ken Haug [2]_, Pablo Conesa [2]_, Rob Davey [7]_, Ralf Weber [11]_, Norman Morrison [3]_,
Marco Roos [12]_, Egon Willighagen [13]_ and Jildau Bouwman [14]_.

.. [1] Oxford e-Research Centre, University of Oxford, UK.
.. [2] EMBL-EBI The European Bioinformatics Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, UK.
.. [3] NERC Bioinformatics Center (NEBC), Centre for Ecology and Hydrology, University of Manchester, School of Computer Science, Manchester, UK.
.. [4] FDA's National Center for Toxicological Research (NCTR), Center for Toxicoinformatics, Jefferson, AR, USA.
.. [5] Rosetta Biosoftware, Seattle, WA, USA.
.. [6] Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre, BC Cancer Agency, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
.. [7] Earlham Institute, Norwich Research Park, Norwich, UK.
.. [8] GigaScience Journal, BioMed Central, London, UK.
.. [9] Office for National Statistics, Newport, Wales, UK
.. [10] ToxBank Consortium, European Union
.. [11] Environmental Metabolomics Research Laboratory, University of Birmingham, UK
.. [12] Leiden University Medical Centre, Leiden, Netherlands
.. [13] Department of Bioinformatics, Maastricht University, Netherlands
.. [14] Netherlands Organisation for Applied Scientific Research (TNO), The Hague, Netherlands
